welcome to Sam's business growth show
I'm Sam Dunning additional marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as I'll be
interviewing business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
you'll be learning that story our
digital marketing has helped them along
the way and exclusive tips insights to
help you skyrocket your own business
[Music]
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
Sam's business growth show I'm humbled
and I'm very very excited to be joined
by Mario Martinez jr. today
mariya is the CEO and founder at van
Grasso
he spent 85 consecutive quarters in e2 b
cells and leadership he is one of 20
sales influencers invited to appear in a
salesforce.com documentary film the
story of cells that was launched in 2018
he was also named over 2019
top set top 10 sales influences by the
modern sales magazine 2018 top 25 most
influential inside sales professionals
and selling power magazines 2018 top
sales training and coaching consultant
plus is the host of the very popular the
modern selling podcast marrow very warm
welcome sir
how are you Sam I love it I'm thankful
that you invited me and you know what I
love about this is you really get to see
personalities evolve especially when you
do radio like this right it's just a few
minutes ago we were spending time
talking you and I were having a really
nice reserved conversation and all of a
sudden it's hello and all the sudden Sam
Dunning comes out so I just love seeing
personalities come out and transform
when you're live on air
dude appreciate it and and excited to
chat I remember once a few weeks back it
had someone on the show and they said
Sam you've turned from quite a reserve
guy to a performing monkey what's going
on exactly a performing monkey a great
performing monkey exactly exactly the I
think the diet coke kicked in the
caffeine is gone and we're ready to go
anyway that said Mary there's plenty
myself and the audience want to learn
from you today we'd love to learn a few
main things really so we want to know a
bit more about yourself so we grew up
your story and some of the key
businesses you've worked at after
founding van Grasso and more importantly
the lessons that you learn at each that
you can share with us and in terms of
sales in terms of business and terms of
marketing and and once we get up to
where we are today we'd love to learn
how you've scaled up to then grow so to
where it is today and some of the
marketing channels do to be utilized to
build it up so I know you're a big
hitter on social channels like LinkedIn
and Twitter and yeah that's pretty much
it dude so if it's
off the top and learn a bit more about
yourself and take it away boy this
podcast is only about 30 minutes right
35 minutes whatever I think we can have
spent a whole entire couple hours just
on that topic so I may be the
abbreviated version so born and raised
San Franciscan sorry for those of you
that are saying oh man I'm sorry but
born racier never left the Bay Area and
I came from a pretty fairly humble
beginnings meaning my family didn't have
a whole lot of money and I was the first
of my family to go to college I paid my
way through college pay for my college
as a result of working and I remember
even in my first year to get the money
that I needed for UC Berkeley's where I
started that I actually had to apply for
over 200 scholarships and grants just to
get enough money to be able to pay for
my first way and then I worked all that
first year to be able to pay for year
two and beyond so that's kind of my
background there I started out actually
in sales in retail believe it okay and I
didn't know I was doing retail sales at
all in fact I actually was working as a
photo finisher for those you that are
old enough to remember a retail shop
called Ritz Camera centers well funny
dude I worked my first ever self jobs in
retail but a camera shop called Jessup
so it's funny people she had the same
experience same exact experience yeah
exactly so Ritz Camera Centers is no
longer even I think in existence but you
used to be able to take your film and
thirty-five millimeter film and go get
it developed and printed that is since
died since the digital era but
nonetheless I started out there and I
was always doing his photo finishing and
I was overflow meaning when their sales
person wasn't around I would go and I
would sell or at least take care of the
customers for them yeah turns out after
a few years when I asked to take a
transfer from our Concord store to our
Berkley store because I was going to UC
Berkeley
our regional manager denied my request
for a transfer and I was just devastated
so he wanted to meet with me about that
and it turns out he told me he wouldn't
accept my transfer as a photo finisher
but he would accept it as a salesperson
why well because apparently I was one of
the top three salespeople in the region
for a year and I didn't even know it as
a photo finisher and so he wanted to
understand what I was doing so he said
I'm too good to be put into photo
finishing I want to push you into sales
and that was actually the beginning and
start of my career into sales and from
there I ended up taking my first
software job doing as a telemarketer now
called SD rbdr a telemarketer and I was
a part-time telemarketer for a software
company it was an EDI software company
and I had some pretty awesome results
and the first six months about for every
ten of my leads I pushed over to the
sales team about four of them resulted
in an opportunity so as a direct result
the leadership team asked me to move
into what's called a junior town
executive role where I was partnered
with a Senior Account Executive and I
worked with them side-by-side on all of
their accounts in their territory to be
able to help them sell and to do a lot
of the grunt work that you do from an
admin perspective and so in my first
year we hit President's Club set a brand
new record for the company in terms of
gross sales ever made and after that I
was promoted to my own junior AE so I
worked in software then got recruited
over to do consulting sales then got
recruited over to do
infrastructure-as-a-service sales and
then after that telecom after that
software collaboration and then I
started my own individual company so all
in all out of 22 out of 18 corporate
years that I spent in corporate sales
and in leadership roles 15 of those 18
years in corporate corporate business
literally were in the 100% or what's
known as presidents club or pinnacle
circle Chairman's club so 15 out of
those 18 years we're spending in those
categories and I can tell you exactly
what happened and all three of the years
that I didn't hit my number so any case
I'm very proud of that accomplishment it
was a great fun ride and my wife still
asked me today why on God's green earth
are you working and building your own
company and making 50 percent less than
what you could have been could be making
while you're doing direct sales so
but they're okay blast that's certainly
a long story short so starting off in a
retail store just like mine it myself
working on the print side of things and
somehow becoming a top 3/3 seller and
then being being pushed into sells it
sounds like in and getting a taste for
it and moving from there so it's on what
you've had success from quite an early
stage from what you've just gone through
with us Mario so you've progressed but
over the years you've progressed pretty
well you went on to save you've had 15
last years I think in President's Club
so being a top performer so perhaps you
could share with us some of the secrets
some of the tips that enables you to be
so successful in to move up the ranks
has to say and how did you do it man
so I'll actually put it all together and
sum it up in one word it's the same
phrase that I used in the sales
documentary for the story of sales at
Salesforce and it's the same one that
Marc Benioff introduced and showed at
Dreamforce last year as an opening clip
to the sales cloud keynote and simply
put sales is the art of helping period
sales is the art of helping period and
if we think about it from that
perspective in terms of whenever we're
evolved in a sales motion from the very
beginning to the very end it is the
opportunity for you to help someone else
solve a very specific set of problems or
a problem and for them to be able to
address something that they need to fix
inside the organization and it may be a
personal win maybe a personal help it
may be a business-related help but sales
is the art of helping and so if you
think about it sales from that
perspective
generally speaking you won't go wrong
and most customers will see the
genuineness that you bring to the table
when it when they are engaging with you
to understand whether or not you are the
right fit and your company is the right
fit to help assist them with whatever it
is that you're trying to sell them nice
fun and if you got any tips on how we
can make that shine through
and I think you've also got your own
Michels mythology right PVC which
perhaps we could dive into a bit more
how that works yeah
so it's first off it comes with the tips
I would say first off it comes with the
attitude most people and most sellers
especially when those those first
messages hit my box right so I'm the CEO
of ingress so we are the world's largest
modern sales training company we help
sellers create more sales conversations
through b2b digital uh selling motions
so have you think about this as the CEO
of ingress oh I get many many many
pitches all day long hitting my box
especially because my email is publicly
available in most social medium sites so
people can actually contact me okay and
in for the most part it's all about me
me me me me me iiiiii want want want
want want one 15 minute 15 minutes 15
minutes 15 minutes I could almost do
like a dance so if you think about this
that is the wrong way to approach a
buyer it is the absolute wrong way I
don't care who you are what you are or
what you want if all of this is all
about you what I want to solve first is
something that is important to me and
then I care about who you are and what
you're all about and what your company
is if I know that you can solve a very
specific problem and this is important
for salespeople to truly understand this
because self people business owners
whoever might be and marketers as well
especially those that are writing the
actual sales sequences or sales messages
for the outbound type of campaigns we
have to move away from the self-service
model meaning I want to serve me and
therefore I'm going to ask you to meet
with me because I want something no flip
that around and it's all about you the
buyer where you are at as a buyer and
where I should be at as well what you
care about right now and if I can solve
a problem for you right now so take a
step back and think about this the
digital era
there's no
dispute right at all right now everybody
knows that all of our buyers are for the
most part digitally connected socially
engaged mobile attached and video hungry
why well because of the era that we live
in with the whole Kovan 19 since night
gonna just go away overnight
poof right it won't happen um in fact
even win and if restrictions are lifted
and everybody's kind of getting back to
what they call the normal the pendulum
has swung so far over to the right that
businesses and individuals and companies
have realized oh my god I can be fairly
productive without having to swing back
the other way and keep my cost lower so
the pendulum is not gonna swing all the
way back the way it used to be Preet
Rico good night
twenty twenty twenty it is going to be
somewhere between where it was and where
where it has been during a
shelter-in-place with that in mind when
we approach our buyers we do have a
method called the PBC sales methodology
and in fact you can go in and you
there's a phenomenal ebook and I
encourage you to to look at this if you
go PVC method that's like PVC piping the
P the V the C method comm PVC method
comm then what you'll be able to see is
it is a really great ebook that is all
around how do you approach a buyer how
do you reach out to a buyer with the
idea of how to help them with the
messaging example we talked about the P
what is the P stand for the P for the
PVC is an acronym and it stands for
personalize personalize your message now
I receive messages all the time Sam that
says dear Jake dear your Mary dear Maria
my freaking name is Mario okay alright
let's get that right first of all so is
you're not stuck yeah a bad start your
your email marketing automation totally
sucks it's horrible and or you didn't
even take the time when you were going
through and if you were setting up a
sequence to look at name to email and I
do this even when I set up a sequence as
an outbound as a sales influencer when
I'm reaching out to our customers I go
through the sales sequence and I look at
every single name to determine if it
it has a name first of all and if it
does have the right name at least
according to the email that we've got in
the database so so first off
personalization now let's talk about how
do you open up a message when you're
looking at email or specifically social
there's the dear Sam or hello Sam that's
one option
second option hi Sam third option hey
Sam
now all three of them are legit they're
valid they can be used well what should
a sales rep use when reaching out to a
prospect for the very first time is it
formal friend or bestfriend voice what
do you think Sam formal friend or best
friend formal being dear or hello Sam
dear Sam hello Sam
being hi Sam and best friend voice being
hey Sam so I can tell you what I do but
it's not actually any of those three I
know you just put the name so if I was
reaching out to you I'd probably sit
Mario because it takes less real estate
and the mobile but otherwise I probably
put height very good okay so the base
minimum that when you're reaching out to
a prospect should be at least the friend
voice hi Sam the bass minimum right okay
most people do deer especially when they
do it on social so that is the wrong
spot to use formal voice right so we
want to be able to create an environment
where we are showcasing some sort of
friendship and personality now I always
use hey Sam exclamation point
because I want people to see that I'm
excited in having a conversation always
that's what I always use email as well
as on social and on social you
absolutely can use the hey Sam now a lot
of folks might be listening saying well
emails too formal especially if you're
in the European countries saying hey Sam
might offend people and you know we're
not in the same spot as the US okay no
problem though hi at least hi hi Sam
right yes offended by an email and an
exclamation mark and somebody's going
wrong yeah well believe it or not we do
training worldwide and in Asia
back in the European region okay um the
number one feedback that we get from we
can't be if we can't be best friend like
you don't do that in oh wow okay you
don't do that in cross Europe and I'm
like oh lord have mercy it's a social
medium everybody expects you'd have a
social conversation shorthand is
appropriate and it's okay nonetheless
yeah filled with friend voice base
minimum friend voice now personalization
just doesn't mean the name
personalization means that when we think
about the p4 PVC we're looking at this
from a perspective of how do I
personalize to the individual now might
I look at someone's LinkedIn profile and
could I say well hey we went to the same
college or the university together oh I
saw that you speak German and I speak
German too oh I see that your golf
interest I mean your interest is both
and therefore I'm a golfer as well could
you use that yeah you could but that's
not the type of personalization I'm
talking about the type of
personalization I'm talking about is
when you look at a leader and if you can
see that they're engaged with content
and material on their Twitter on their
LinkedIn profile if you can see they're
engaged with content find something that
you can relate to that you can pull in
and say man I saw your recent posts on
diversity and in action for van Grasso
and that's a great example like I
actually just wrote about how we focus
on being very intentional inside of
ingress so from a hiring perspective and
what I'm actually looking for which is
why we've abled a bit build an
organization has over 40 percent Latinos
over 40 percent women right so this is a
very intentional action so someone could
have looked at me and said hey Mario
I saw your recent posts on building
diversity in action and you include that
link inside there as an example it
resonated to me because right and so now
I know that you've actually taken the
time to get to know me that's one form
of personalization but now you might be
thinking hey hmm I don't actually have
any information on this person's social
profile they are not socially active so
what do I do then that's when we call we
personalize to the buyer persona so all
the marketers listening in this is
extremely important that you listen in
for the marketing if you're doing
marketing outbound for your sales rep
and the business owners you may not have
a marketing team but you can still apply
the same thing so we personalized to the
Buy
persona what do I mean by that let's
start with this as an example when our
sellers reach out cold which we rarely
ever do but sometimes it happens if we
have to reach out cold and let's just
say you're a VP of Sales we would reach
out and say hey Sam majority of business
up scuse me
not business or majority of VPS of sales
that I speak to have two common problems
one they're trying to increase the
number of sales conversations for their
sales reps and to build the sales
pipeline are you struggling with that
okay
now you're speaking my language you're
personalizing to the buyer persona right
and this is all documented in the PBC
method calm that I mentioned earlier
sure if you speak to that buyer persona
now you're getting into what's important
to me and I'm gonna do one of two things
Sam as a recipient I'm gonna read this
and say yes I have that problem or no I
don't and if I don't have that problem I
don't want to be prospecting to you in
the first place so that's the P for the
PBC right there so personalized to the
person or the individual or personalized
to the buyer persona now we move on to
the big V and for those you can't see
I'm holding in my arms like you know I'm
doing PVC now we move on to the big V
what's V Stan what's the V stand for it
stands for value look before you take
somebody and before you you get engaged
with somebody what are you gonna do
before you get engaged that's a question
for you so special to me
well get engaged there's a process
before yeah sure you're gonna get a ring
you're gonna propose but before that
you're gonna build up a relationship
exactly right that happens through the
dating process right so generally
speaking you don't meet somebody for the
first time at the bar and then all of a
sudden you're getting married the next
day that just doesn't happen if it did
happen all right you're in anomaly but
nonetheless generally you've got to date
them and so this v4 value is before you
ask me for 15 minutes of my time which
by the way you should ask for 15-minute
meetings I've got an opinion on that but
before you ask me for 15 or 30 minutes
of my time bring me value so you just
talked about a problem majority of sales
leaders that I speak to have these two
common problems directly below are two
articles that I
think will help you and your sales team
solve this particular problem that's the
value bringing that content marketers
you got to be asking yourself do my
salespeople have the content that they
need to help facilitate the conversation
they have to have and on the three sauna
for business owners if you don't have
content that you've personally written
no problem go out and find it there's
great tools like feedly follow top sales
influencers or influencers in your
market that are talking about certain
things right go find that content so you
bring that value to the customer and
make sure that you bring one or two
pieces of content that will help them
through the process of understanding it
could be an e-book it could be a white
paper it could be a blog it could be a
short video or it could be a recorded
webinar alright those are many different
items that you can bring in and in terms
of value and then you close with that
see for the CTA the call to action now
most of us when we're actually
prospecting and sending out messaging
most of us want to go in straight for
the kill and the kill is I want a
30-minute meeting I want a 15-minute
meeting that's the end goal everybody
wants the meeting everybody's looking
for the meaning and guess what so is
every other Tom Dick and Harry who's
prospecting that particular buyer right
so scrap focusing on getting the meeting
it might be appropriate for certain
messages it might be okay for certain
occasions and I'm not saying never use
it but try this a call to action is not
just asked for the meeting you could ask
a question to solicit engagement you
could ask a question to create an
opinion and they respond back with their
opinion you could ask for help these the
types of things that we need to be
thinking about when sending out
messaging that gets someone to reply why
our goal is to create engagement first
that leads to from a connection to a
conversation we call it the c2c
connection to conversation alright
that's really the goal and so if you
apply that P VC method al Jean ever
message then you will get better results
both on social media in terms of
outreach as well as cold prospecting
love it love the process dude
so just to quickly recap 4p we've got
personalized where you're personalizing
let's say we're doing cold emails to the
person so actually using their name with
hey or hi and then using some some
content that they may have recently
engaged on if you're able to so if they
if they put something recently on
LinkedIn that you enjoy the content and
why you enjoyed it or if they don't have
that social brand if they're not on
LinkedIn and on Twitter you're not able
to track them down then go into the
persona so often when I speak to VP of
Sales we do have marketing they
typically have these two issues that we
often see then we've got the value point
so linking them some content that's
relevant so blog article could be a
recent video you did it could be a link
to a webinar any type of useful content
that's topical to what you're talking
about and then the call to action so in
terms of the call to action Mary you
said you didn't like it when people say
I've got 15 minutes to discuss book
twenty minutes on my calendar so what
are we looking at more more and more
brief or less committing cool to actions
so I've personally had a little bit of
success with asking things like open to
learning more or open to discussing and
so a lot less time commitment because I
know a lot of people were just sick and
tired of seeing my book twenty minutes
of my calendar and that kind of stuff
that you hit the nail on the head and
the question that you ask is exactly
what I'm referring to when we talk about
the CTA right the C for the CTA
that is you're asking a question are you
open to a discussion right especially if
you lead with the questions up most
whatever your buyer persona is ours is
VPS of sales most VPS of sales I talked
to have these two common problems and if
you close with is are you open a
discussion to solve those two problems
I'm either gonna say yes or no and if I
say yes it's because I have that problem
and now you know you've hooked them
right but so yes to what you just said
phenomenal way to create engagement
remember the goal is to create
engagement which leads to the connection
to a conversation and it also in that
regard what I want to address is the 15
minute meeting
most sellers are looking to focus on
getting that 15 minutes first of all the
15 minute meeting is stupid stop it all
right let me repeat that because people
are probably saying wait what the 15
minute meeting request is stupid
stop it now that is a very big swath of
continent in for statement and there are
of course different selling environments
that it might not apply to for example
you may be very transactional with a $99
sale and it's a one call closed type of
environment okay maybe so but but if
you're looking at a sales motion that
requires multiple calls and a sales
process that requires a buying committee
know it's stupid stop it so why is that
stupid and why should I say stop it
first of all it takes about seven
minutes to be able to build some rapport
on a phone conversation with somebody
especially if you if you've started out
with you've got an identification of a
problem you're gonna sit there you're
gonna make some introductions get a
little background and do a little
research you're gonna have some
conversation so you've already chewed up
seven minutes of your 15 minutes and you
don't even have time to assess what is
the problem it's like how many times
have you gone into a doctor's office
where you've been frustrated you walk in
you say doctor I've got a sore throat
and he or she says open your mouth ah
and then look at it and say yep you got
a red sore throat take this do that do
this do that
well no diet I knew I had a sore throat
coming and I told you I've been doing
that and why do you think that may have
happened well let's feel on your lymph
nodes let's check let's check under your
arms let's check your fever let's check
your blood pressure let's do all these
other elements to be able to understand
what might be causing this not just hey
you've got a sore throat take two two
aspirins and call me in the morning
right that's when we get frustrated with
that so don't frustrate what your buyers
schedule a 30-minute meeting but here's
the big kicker most sales reps
especially our younger sales reps the
Millennials when you send out a message
they set on a message saying hey I'd
like to schedule a meeting whatever the
time is let's just say 30 minutes
directly below is my link please go
ahead and click on that link to book a
meeting oh stop it don't do that no no
you work for that meeting because
selling to buyers like me who are age 45
and older and the way we grew up in our
thinking is no no no no I don't just
click on a link and by the way I'm the
digital guy I'm the all digital
everything so I'm all about links all
right so mind you but I think about my
buyer who's 45 you don't just say I'm
gonna click on a link and then try to
book a meeting no you work for the for
the opportunity so what we do is and
what we teach our sellers is is when
you're extending outreach and you are
going to ask for a meeting or if you are
going to ask for a meeting then what you
do is is on the bottom of that I mean
you say here Sam I'm available
here are three dates and times that I'm
available one is two weeks out at the
morning timeslot say nine o'clock the
next option is three weeks out at a mid
day timeframe say 12 o'clock or one
o'clock and the the third option is uh
four weeks out the third option is four
weeks out at a say four o'clock
timeframe now and then you say and if by
the way neither none of these dates work
I've included my calendar link below to
avoid email scheduling Volleyball very
important to avoid email scheduling
volleyball I've included my calendar
link below so that we can find something
that might work would that work for you
because now you basically showcase I
know that you're important enough for me
to give you some time so that you can go
and look on your calendar three three
spots and if for some reason it doesn't
work look I don't want to play email
scheduling volleyball back and forth
with the sales rep I'm just gonna click
on that link and make it convenient for
me so now I've eased into that motion
and if you also understand why did I say
two weeks three weeks and four weeks out
why did I say that the reason for that
is if you're selling to an executive
again think of the sales motion where
you've got multiple calls a buying
committee not a one call call clothes
not a call a single transaction
you know sub hundred dollars right if
you've got a sales motion most
executives are booked out at least two
weeks on their schedule
so if you say two three and four weeks
out at nine one and four now there's
really no opportunity or possibility
they're gonna say no because you've
pushed it out so far ahead that their
schedule probably isn't booked up so be
smart about your sales prospecting and
booking calls is what I say love it dude
love the PVC method and I'm sure you're
the same I get between ten and twenty
LinkedIn DMS per day as well as several
phone calls I'm guessing you probably
get a hundred or so just literally and
Sam you might do X we do X it can help
you book your time on my calendar it's
like what and I've even had cold calls
lately where people just say Sam are you
interested in signing up on our CRM
software for example and we just want to
schedule a 30-minute demo it's like what
you haven't led with value you haven't
talked about the pain you can solve you
haven't told me anything you just told
me that you want to but you want me to
spend 30 minutes ago so what and so yet
study see method because that's gonna
help you a heck of a lot yeah I had a
great I hope we have some time to tell
us quick story here but do you sometimes
okay yeah that's a great call call now I
I love sales guys and gals and my wife
the drives were crazy because I take
calls and them in the middle of family
time and I think it's a cold call and I
just want to help right so I take a cold
call and it's like hi I'm and they start
pitching in it and then I sit there for
15 minutes and I coach them here's what
you did wrong right yeah you're calling
one of the world's top thought leaders
on sales did you even know who I was no
no I didn't know you know maybe it's
just a my dialer like that's the problem
with with automation know who your know
thy buyer that's the saying know thy
buyer so I got a great call as a sales
rep called me he had been calling for
over six months he probably left him
about 30 voice mails and he was trying
to sell me telecommunication services
for our office okay he finally gets me I
actually thought it was our chief sales
officer so I picked up the phone it was
a caller ID in the same area code as my
chief sales officer and pick up the
phone and it's him and he says hey I'm
giving you a call
to reach out to all IT buyers to my all
my IT buyers to talk about network
infrastructure and I said
he said so I'm hoping I can schedule
call with you and I said you lost me
when you said hey obviously I said the
words I said hey I'm reaching out to my
IT you've lost me in the first seven
words and he goes what I said you lost
me on the seventh word I'm not an IT
buyer he was like oh I thought that you
know IT infrastructure was underneath
you I said well it is yes I'm the CEO
ultimately IT infrastructures under me
yes
yeah but I'm not an IT buyer Do You Know
Who I am he was like oh you're the Mario
Martinez see I said no Do You Know Who I
am
yeah and he was like well I could not
really sure how to answer that question
he said did you look me up on LinkedIn
or Twitter or Facebook or YouTube or
anything else he's like no I said so you
do not know who I am
did you go to my website no did you look
at my about page no if you had looked at
any of those pieces of information you
would have known that you would not have
lead with I'm reaching out to IT buyers
right that's the first problem the
second thing I said to him is is look
man you're reaching out did you do a
search on my address he's like yeah and
and we have network connectivity
services for your specific area I said
did you realize that it's a mall he says
what do you mean and I said it's a mall
and the location is a UPS Store with a
p.o box he's like no so you don't have
any office space I said no because if
you had looked at our company looked at
our story you looked at anything about
us you were to see that when we started
the company we had a mission and that
was to create a 100% virtual company
with no real estate whatsoever and it
was extremely intentional because we're
a digital sales training company and you
can live breathe and die off of a
virtual digital environment and he was
like oh snap and I'm like look Brad like
I want to handle Chrome so yeah like a
question guy no but afterwards I said
listen I want to help you
you know you how many years you've been
in sales he's like only one I said all
right so here's your opportunity this is
a good lesson learned because I promise
you you're doing this on every other
call that you're making to other buyers
and you've got to fix that and so he was
like man like no one's ever taken me
through that I was like here's the
motion I went through the PBC sales
methodology right if you're gonna reach
out to me you can still use PBC on the
phone
you just got to shorten it up because
you got 30 seconds right you can still
use PB you can use PB see on social you
can use PVC on email you can use PVC and
direct mail you can use PVC anywhere
that you want and so I am I said one
last thing if you had looked at my
LinkedIn profile you would have seen
that I was connected to your CEO now I
knew as soon as he called me the company
worked for because the CEO and I used to
Co cell together at a previous company
as sales reps and he went often open his
company and then seven years later I
would often open my company so I said
you would have seen that I was connected
and then what you would have said is hey
boss CEO at my company I see that you're
connected with this guy I've been trying
to connect with him I've called him 42
times right and emailed him a hundred
times and he's not responding can you
reach out to him and then your boss
would have said or your CEO would have
said no they're a virtual company
they're probably not our target market
right so so I said and the best way to
get into my office which we could have a
whole nother podcast about the Sam the
easiest and best way and the fastest way
into someone's office is not cold it's
not PVC it's through what we call the
referral and then we have a whole
methodology on the digital referral
which we don't have time for so any case
that was my short story and I hope
that's a good learning lesson for
salespeople and business owners in terms
of how you reach out to somebody
definitely a lesson on that cold
outreach and more important though it
says is doing a quick bit of research so
I guess even if you're on a dialer like
he was he could have quickly snapped
onto LinkedIn or Twitter or any social
platform having had a look at what you
guys are doing cool man
so we've covered some good stuff enjoy
the PVC method so if you're not yet give
that give that certainly a try but what
we'd love to learn is why you started
Ben Gresso and how you scaled it up over
over the last couple years Mario and a
little bit more about the techniques the
strategies that you and your Salesforce
have used to build up to where it is
today so great question and how it
started it was I was a VP of Sales and
my former laughs the former company I
worked for in corporate sales my last
stop in corporate and I launched a
digital sales program which included a
social selling training and video sales
training program all at the same time to
one
20 US domestic sellers and 350 globally
and it was so successful that LinkedIn
asked me to speak at their annual users
conference to talk about how we were
able to drive something that had never
been done before which was a hundred
percent rep adoption and a hundred
percent of our reps actually attributed
a sales opportunity to the open pipeline
three months later I went out of my own
and I was consulting in training
companies like Cisco and ADP and other
organizations because of the brand that
I had built but it was only as a direct
result of standing in front of
LinkedIn's audience so for those of you
that are audibly listening if if I had a
straight line for my brand equity before
walking into LinkedIn it did see a
vertical flip flop 90 degree angle to -
all the way up afterwards so I'm
thankful to LinkedIn for actually
creating my brand is essentially what
happened or give me the opportunity to
create the brand and so about a year
into it after I opened up my my own
individual sales training company I was
looking at this and said man the digital
sales marketplace is so fragmented
there's a bunch of individual
consultants that are out there but
nobody's nailed this by bringing this
all together under one umbrella and
nobody's really doing kick knocking it
out of the park so if I was gonna open
up a service based company I wasn't
gonna go compete with the other 200
sales training companies that are out
there that there was that there there
was no reason to do that so I said let
me pick a niche that nobody's in and
that was digital sales right so I went
and a year into my my first venture I
said there's got to be a quicker faster
better way and there was and I came up
with a plan to do a merger and that was
to merge together multiple companies
Whitman pitched a number of individuals
to be able to bring their business
together to take it to the next level
that was really the goal is take the
business to the next level so if we
could do that then we could form
collectively the largest digital sales
training company or we call modern sales
training and on top of that we could
leverage influence and brand in the
marketplace and that's exactly what we
did so literally a year and three months
after I started my first company I
merged together for companies with
Viveka von Rosen who's one of the most
well known social media influencers on
LinkedIn Kurt
Shaver who is also a sales influencer
and Bernie Borges who had a fine
reputation in the marketplace is one of
the top content marketing influencers
brought everybody together and with
bringing everybody together we were able
to now leverage our collective influence
which reaches about fifty five million
sales and marketers now today so how did
we build up the influence individually I
would say my story is probably one of
the fastest case studies out there that
went from zero to influencer within a
one year period of time and what did I
do
I simply leveraged social media I
developed what's called a connection
strategy and this is what we teach our
sellers to do you find your target
buyers and you develop a connection
strategy with that in mind the the
connection strategy that we're focused
on is looking at your target buyers and
helping to build up a conversation which
then creates value through social media
and now you create influence the second
part of what I did was is create content
and content didn't need to be big ol
long blog articles everybody told me to
be an influencer that I needed to be
able to write a book and I don't know
about you but anytime someone tells me
that that I need to do something to be
able to do be able to be something I say
watch me do the opposite right and the
opposite is is I'm gonna show you that I
don't need to do that so what I did was
as I said I'm gonna create video while
all the other sales influencers were
writing blog content nobody else was
really focusing on video content or very
few were and that's where I started
creating short snippets of video content
and as I developed my connection
strategy of my target buyers and/or
target followers I started to build up
influence and following and then all of
a sudden Nirvana happened and there was
enough following enough connecting that
resulted in opportunities and
conversations that resulted in sales
which resulted in now all the other
marketplaces the magazines the trade
rags the sales technology companies
seeing that this guy Mario Martinez was
actually out there and was creating
influence people were following him and
so as a direct result I want to use his
brand to amplify my own so they would
invite me onto their
Podcast they didn't have me on their
blog and those types of things so that
was really the way to be able to the
road to influence and the same
principles can be applied to a
salesperson or a business owner the same
exact principles now you may not have be
aspiring a influencer and I was not I
was not an aspiring influencer what I
was aspiring to do was Bale to build my
first year of revenue because I was a
former VP of Sales and I was out of my
own now and if you could imagine the
type of income that I had as a VP of
Sales I had to replace that income so I
had a very focused plan and I worked
that plan and all I did was read read
read and today to this very day I hate
reading books I really do I read about
2,000 blogs a year and watch maybe a few
hundred videos a year maybe even a video
a day is what I do so I I like short
form content and I use that information
to be able to build the company so how
we started ingresso was really forming
together a collective brand that would
dominate the market industry in teaching
sellers and business owners how to go
about creating more sales conversations
using digital and there's a great site
out there called more sales calls com
that you know people can go and look at
and look at how to some specific sales
training to help you out awesome man
so I love I love that you found the
right niche that wasn't being tapped
into which was digital sales and then he
built up a strategy we emerged to four
companies you built up a connection
strategy which I'd love to dive into a
little bit if we may we talked about
starting conversations connecting and
starting conversation with your ideal
buyers so for anyone that's listening or
watching and thinking how the heck do I
go about that can you give us a very
quick snapshot of how someone could get
started in such yeah so I'm gonna I'm
gonna put the context in the forum for
sales reps and business owners because
it's a different mindset if you're
trying to build up influence and the
process but for a salesperson and a
business owner first of all just the
same way we do with our sales reps we've
got us a team of four inside of our
organization and our sales reps are
rockin right now they're literally about
three months old and we just had our
second quarter
close and we actually made quota by 1382
dollars over quota that's our chinny
chin chin but we still made it
nonetheless we got the mark but so for
the four sales rep and for a business
owner what you need to understand is
who's your buyer persona once you
understand who your buyer persona is it
was who you're going after next you're
gonna be focused on who are my target
customers and/or prospects that I want
to go after and if you look at that from
the perspective of maybe my top 50 my
top 100 my top 20 my top 10 whatever the
number is it doesn't matter you're gonna
do that either on a monthly or on a
quarterly basis all right so the bigger
the number probably your manages
throughout the quarter so if you have a
top 100 you're probably being developing
a connection strategy over a quarter
long period so think about your sales
motion as a sprint just like marketing
has marketing Sprint's okay
the sales motion is going to be focused
on my top 10 20 150 whatever there is
okay and what you're gonna do is you're
gonna focus in on those customers and
you're gonna develop a connection
strategy with those individuals how do
you start it exactly what I said earlier
about the sales rep who called me up who
had not done research on me didn't know
who I was you start there our sales reps
cadence is generally about six steps and
and and we repeat some of those motions
in between the first step is always
always connect on LinkedIn with a
personalized connection request so
that's the cadence that's how we start
our cadence both inbound and outbound
inbound and outbound well actually I
take that back
inbound for sure outbound there's a
precursor step and that is they're going
to look to see if they can engage on
social media with that individuals
content comment like and engage tag and
app mention and then the next day
they're going to connect so it's a
little bit different for the outbound
but but now let's get to the point that
we've reached out to connect the next
step that you're going to do is to be
able to create a sales conversation is
to actually turn around
and if they connect back with you now
you're gonna send a personalized welcome
message you're gonna utilize the PBC
method that I talked about earlier and
bring that welcome message in and
traditionally I like using video to be
able to create that conversation if I
has a video message and then if there's
no response there I'm going to move to
an email medium because our buyers may
not be on social our buyers may not want
to respond to social so I'll move to
email to see if they're on email and
this is why our job for sales has gotten
so much harder Sam so much harder
because we now have to look at is Sam a
social person and Sam and me an email
person is Sam a texter understand like
vide short form video I don't know what
you like until I start trying all the
different methods and every buyer is
different there's no one swath that that
applies to everyone so now I go from
from from LinkedIn to say email and then
from email I now send a video message
from video message I might use text from
text I might use direct mail and then I
might place a cold call or a when in
this case will be a very warmed up call
right so somewhere along that process
you can mix and match how you like the
cadence doesn't matter what does map the
cadence set up that doesn't matter what
does matter though is is don't reach out
to a buyer cold don't reach out to a
buyer cold almost all buyers you can
probably find a way to connect with that
individual buyer and warm that call up
but there are current times where you
have to do a cold connection but also I
forgot in that cadence inside there was
a digital referral you might ask for a
referral to get inside there using your
rolodex called LinkedIn and and you
might be able to connect that way as
well so many different ways but that's
the way I would I would focus on
developing a connection and we go into
that entire training program the
methodology the cadence that you should
build and how to select your cadence on
our selling with LinkedIn training
program called more sales calls calm
love it dude and what wrung through to
me when you're going through that is
that like you said not everyone has
their own channel they prefer to be
contacted on so I know if we're dealing
with a new inbound lead that not
everyone's gonna want to talk on email
just like you said so
send a personal request on LinkedIn
maybe sending an email obviously try
them on the phone if they've left their
phone or we've got their phone number
maybe utilize text maybe utilize what's
at because everyone let you say likes to
communicate on different ways and it's
strange how people can just ignore what
channels seem obvious for you to reply
on and then reply on some obscure chat
channel like text message and start
talking talking to your product over
text or over LinkedIn messenger so
everyone's different like you say so the
more channels you tap into it the more
chance you've got to succeed and
actually start this conversation which I
love cool dude so this has been this has
been epic before we wrap things up I
would like to ask you one thing Mary if
anyone is thinking of starting their own
company or anyone that has recently
started their own business
haven't you got any tips or quick golden
nuggets of advice that may help them out
actually I have a video on this before
starting of videos but it was as a
result of a conversation I had with
Alice Hyman and she she said she cause
it's a story or hopefully there's enough
time and I called Alice Hyman who's also
a sales influencer in a friend of mine
and I said Alice I'm thinking I've
started my business what should I
consider and she said I got two
questions for you I said oh okay look
she's like it's very easy these two
questions be very very easy and it will
tell me whether or not you are ready to
be a business owner I said okay I'm like
this is it the secret formula give it to
me she said first question do you have
enough money in the bank that will allow
you to sustain your current lifestyle or
close to it
for the next year
and I said yeah I do absolutely I've got
I got enough of that she said perfect
okay
you're 50% of the way there through
completion and I was like okay what's
the next question she said are you
willing to risk it all and my answer was
interesting I said Wow um I would be but
I'm pretty sure my wife would not be so
that's that's that that would be a good
question and then she said okay okay
wait I lied there's actually a third
question now now based upon your answer
there's a third question and I said and
she said this is the final question
because this will determine whether or
not you should be a business owner I
said okay well what is it she said do
you want to remain married and so I said
yes I do
but wait there's more and so you know
what I what she didn't know was is I
actually had two contracts that were in
process that would help launch my
company and so and so what she said was
well you should have started with that
first and so she said with that in mind
well if you're fully funded then go for
it right but those were two really great
questions that you got to consider
business ownership is not for the faint
of heart
and I will tell you that in my first
four years if you think about the number
of hours that I've invested into my
business um you know I wear many hats
including now that being the largest
modern sales training company we're
still less than 30 people but I still
wear the hat of CEO CFO CEO chief legal
officer and now taking over all of
marketing as well so the point is is
that you're gonna wear many hats you're
gonna have a huge investment and the
hours to to revenue that you make unless
you hit it big unless you hit it big the
hours to revenue is generally going to
be less than on a per hour Lea basis
than if you were to go work for somebody
else but the rewards could be a pretty
amazing and the rewards for me is is I
control my own destiny and I can do what
I want when I want how I want in order
to be able to support my family and do
what I want but it does come with a fair
amount of pressure and Sam what you
don't see is right here on the back of
my head is a nice big giant bald spot
that probably would not have happened if
I didn't have my own company but that's
my answer some some great tips there so
basically have enough cash in the
for a year make sure your better half is
on board and if you can line up a couple
clients ready to rock and roll so you've
got a bit of revenue coming in when you
start it sounds like that's exactly
correct you got it you nailed it love it
dude well everyone you've been tuning
into Sam's business group show where we
sit down with business leaders experts
and entrepreneurs from around the globe
we find out this story how disrupting
has helped them along the way and
exclusive tips and insights to help you
score your sales and skyrocket your
business Mehra if you could thank just
one person either dead or alive having a
positive influence on yourself and your
career who would that be and wife uh
well no doubt I would say my dad my dad
he was the hardest working truck driver
I've ever seen and he always said hey I
don't care if you want to be a truck
driver a brain scientist but you
whatever you do be the best at it and he
always convinced me to to do more with
my with my life so that was on a
personal level him on a business level
there's a gentleman by the name of Greg
wolf I think I told you the story that I
started out as a junior Account
Executive I'm pairing with the Senior
Account Executive it was the best one
year of my life because I got to shadow
one of the top salespeople in the world
that I would put in terms of how to sell
and how to manage through a sales
process and I learned right underneath
the shoulders so that's what started my
career and really business
business-to-business sales as mastering
the art of sales love that man so it's a
bit more about your business how people
can connect with yourself Mary and the
best way to get in touch well if you
haven't figured it out I'm on social
media so feel free to make sure you
connect to me tell me you heard me on
Sam Dunning's podcast here on on
LinkedIn make sure you send a
personalized connection request message
and I welcome them all and of course on
Twitter it's at em underscore 3 jr. I'm
Mario Martinez jr. and we've got VIN
Grasso comm that's ven GREs oh and PVC
method comm that I talked about earlier
it leads to our regressor site and more
sales calls comm leads also to our very
agressive site for our selling with
LinkedIn sales training program so those
are the three ways you can get to me
this has been fun man
Mario thanks so much thank you buddy for
having me are you tired of constantly
hunting for new custom
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because your
website isn't on the first page of
Google perhaps you already spending lots
of money on advertising but your website
is failing to convert all of your
hard-earned visitors into a consistent
flow of new customers if you'd like to
learn more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with Sam Dunning on LinkedIn or
book a free 20 minute consultation by a
web choice UK com that's web choice UK
comm subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts